Hello everyone and welcome to the user's model's lecture.
In this lecture We'll discuss how to use jingoes built in tools to create user authorization models
and we'll also discuss more about how to set up the media files we saw previously into your project.
Now previously when we logged onto the admin page of any of our projects we've seen that there's already
a built in authentication authorization model set in place in the database.
There were two things one of them was groups and the other one was.
Users were going to learn how to use this feature of users.
And previously you also may have heard me mention that sometimes not a good idea to call users.
In your model that is a model that you created.
And the reason for that is you may get confused if this users.
Now they will show up differently in the admin as we saw earlier but this is the kind of users we're
talking about the one that's built in the authentication authorization model so that specific user object
has a few key features and that is the user name the e-mail the password the first name and then the
surname which is the last name.
And there are also some other attributes for the user object such as Is it active.
IS IT staff.
Is it a super user.
And sometimes you will also want to add more attributes to user such as your own links or profile image
etc..
So you can do this in your applications models up high file by creating another class to has a relationship
to the user class.
So let's see an actual example of what this code would look like.
So here comes a giant screen shot and this is what it looks like in your applications models that py
file.
First we want to import that special user from Django that contrib authorization that models import
user.
So A.
Th models.
And then we're going to do is create an actual model and we'll call it user profile info something that
expands off that user and we inherit from models that model and then we create a relationship.
We don't directly inherit from user.
Instead what we do is create a one to one field relationship.
What that basically means is this extra user profile info has a direct one to one connection to the
user model and then we add in any additional attributes you want.
So with the base user model you already have the previous attributes I mentioned the user name the email
the password the first name and the last name.
But if you want your users to have other attributes to them in the models you use this sort of extension
of it.
But the one to one field relationship.
And here's an example of what we're going to be doing which is adding two things.
One is a your link for the user which links to their portfolio.
Let's say we're making some sort of web site where they can link to their portfolio or their web site
cetera that's what we're going to do here.
So we say is equal to models like your Elmfield and we set blank equal to true there.
So they don't have to fill it out.
It's optional.
And then the other one we do is picture or a profile picture or whatever you want to call that variable
and that's an image field.
So we're going to be doing with that is having the user when they register the Web site actually be
able to upload a profile picture much like you would do on Facebook or maybe even like Gmail.
And then we have the string method which is just a built in attribute of self-taught user that username
remember the user attribute that's built into Django has that user name.
So we end up doing is if you ever print out the user it just returns back that username OK.
So notice that one of the fields was something we haven't seen yet.
An image field so I quickly go back here that picture was a model's image field.
Now this will to store images to a model and typically we will keep any user uploaded content like this
in the media file we previously created the media file in the last lecture.
In order to work with images of Python We also need to install the python imaging library and you can
easily install it with Pipp install pillow.
Now sometimes users especially maybe some Windows users and older Windows machines get an error on this
command indicating something like Jay Peggs support is disabled.
If you have that error coming up when you say PYT install pillow add in these options here you can say
Pipp install pillow dash dash global option build underscore XTi and then space dash dash global dash
option equals disable jpeg and this all goes on one line.
And if you want to copy and paste this line it's right in the notes.
OK so once you've created that model of the basically the extension of that user model you have to remember
to register it to the atom and up-I file is something like admin but site that register user profile
info where it user profile info was imported from the models the high file.
Now typically images those CSSA javascript files etc. all go in the static folder of your project but
that static route variable path the find inside of settings that.
Which we did in the last lecture and then the user uploaded content is going to go to the media folder
with the media root and then once you set up your models and then your roots for static and media uploads
are output what you want to do is set up the actual form.
So again you want to implement a jingle forum that the user can use to work with the Web site and we're
going to show you a quick example of what this would actually look like inside the forms that py file
of re-application.
So we already talked about the models up high nélisse like what the forms upaya that the user is going
to be using.
So the code inside the forms that Python looks something like this.
You say from Django import forms and then from the basic application you made that model's import that
user profile info model.
Then we create a new class will say user profile info form that informs that model form as we saw in
the other Gengel levels and then we create the portfolio the picture.
Pass that in as a normal field image field and then we have this class Mehta that connects the model
to the actual user profile info model and then we can exclude something in this case we can exclude
user.
OK so we talk a lot but this becomes a lot more clear when you actually see all code it out.
So what we're going to do in the next lecture is actually code everything we just discussed will cut
out the user model.
Touch a bit on the media directory handling those images and then about the user form.
So media directory and Hanly images.
We set up a lot of that in the previous lectures.
If you didn't watch the previous lecture all the way to the end make sure you've set that up.
OK thanks everyone.
I'll see you at the next lecture.
We're going to start right from the atom editor.